feat(Alerts and AI): EOL transition guide (#5377)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/learn-alerts/alerts-ai-transition-guide-2022.mdx

---

> title: Alerts and AI transition guide 2022

Reviewer: We aren't supposed to use 'AI' as an acronym, and are only supposed to say 'applied intelligence'. 

Also, weirdly, we apparently no longer capitalize it and it's meant to be sentence case now (e.g., 'applied intelligence'). I find this strange, but it's apparently what was decided (let me know if you want that link to marketing guidelines). And also we don't currently use sentence case for this and other AI-related terms in the docs, so that's another weirdness that maybe means we just leave it as title case treatment for now.

Author: good to know, thanks!

  - New Relic Alerts
  - EOL
  - Transition guide
metaDescription: 'Resources to make a successful transition as new functionalities in New Relic One replace alerting functionalities reaching end of life in 2022.'
---

Over the course of several months during 2022, new functionalities in New Relic One will replace alerting functionalities reaching end of life (EOL). We are providing these early notices so you can plan accordingly and make a smooth transition.

## What's changing [#changes]

Here is a summary of what we plan to EOL in 2022, why this is happening, and what will replace the current experience for Alerts and Applied Intelligence.

If you have questions or comments about anything in this EOL transition guide, don't hesitate to:

* Reach out to your New Relic account representative.
* Use the reply thread in our [Explorers Hub post](https://discuss.newrelic.com/t/big-news-for-alerts-and-applied-intelligence/161436).

<CollapserGroup>

  <Collapser
    id="outlier"
    title="February 2022: NRQL baselines to replace outlier NRQL alert condition types."
  >

  **Reason for EOL:** Inefficient cluster identification and analysis capability.

>   **Replacement:** Use NRQL baselines to watch for anomalies in your cluster or to group similar signals. This method is an improvement over outlier conditions, since it will alert you to exactly which member of the group is misbehaving. You may be able to meet the same need as your old outlier conditions met by using a faceted baseline condition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **Replacement:** Use NRQL baselines to watch for anomalies in your cluster or to group similar signals. This method is an improvement over outlier conditions, since it will alert you to exactly which member of the group is misbehaving. You may be able to meet the same need as your old outlier conditions by using a faceted baseline condition.
```

  **Learn more:**

  * [Faceted baseline conditions documentation](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/advanced-alerts/other-condition-types/create-baseline-alert-conditions/#baseline-facets)
  * [Explorers Hub](https://discuss.newrelic.com/t/nrql-outlier-alert-conditions-end-of-life/164167)

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="query-thresholds"
    title="May 2022: Sliding window aggregations to replace sum of query results thresholds."
  >

>   **Reason for EOL:** This has not been an ideal way to address issues caused by sporadic signals. It lacks the ability to smooth out volatile signals or efficiently deal with gaps in signal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **Reason for EOL:** [Sliding window aggregation](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/nrql-query-tutorials/create-smoother-charts-sliding-windows) has not been an ideal way to address issues caused by sporadic signals. It lacks the ability to smooth out volatile signals or efficiently deal with gaps in signal.
```

Reviewer: Just a general note that I think it might be good to include a link to the feature in question somewhere for all of these features to make sure they can realize quickly what feature we're talking about.

Author: That's a good point. I had left xrefs out of this draft because I wanted to steer them away from using these things anymore but your fresh eyes made me rethink this. Thanks!

  **Learn more:**

  * Additional documentation will be provided.
  * [Explorers Hub](https://discuss.newrelic.com/t/big-news-for-alerts-and-applied-intelligence/161436)

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="notifications"
    title="2nd half of 2022: Workflows and destinations to replace notification channels and relationship to policies."
  >

  **Reason for EOL:** Current notification channels are rigid and cannot be customized. They also require restrictive policy-based alert conditions that focus on incident creation.

  **Replacement:** Notification channels will be replaced by workflows and destinations, a new way to manage issue-driven notifications. This solution is more flexible, and it enables notifications for all severity levels.

  **Learn more:**

  * Additional documentation will be provided.
  * [Explorers Hub](https://discuss.newrelic.com/t/big-news-for-alerts-and-applied-intelligence/161436)

  </Collapser>

  <Collapser
    id="condition-types"
    title="2nd half of 2022: NRQL conditions to replace all non-NRQL alert condition types."
  >

>   **Reason for EOL:** A complex user experience and data platform has prevented advances in detection capabilities.

Reviewer: I feel like this needs a little more explanation and links to explain it well. Something like: 

"Currently [NRQL alert conditions](/docs/alerts-applied-intelligence/new-relic-alerts/alert-conditions/create-nrql-alert-conditions) are one type of alert condition. But our many types of alert conditions have resulted in a complex user experience and the lack of alignment has prevented advances in detection capabilities...." 

Something to make it a little more clear what's tied to the 'complex user experience'. 
at least that's what I'm grokking from it.

Reviewer: I also kind of wonder if there are other takeaways to this, like 'Consider only using NRQL alert conditions from here on out when creating new ones to be most aligned with this change'. Maybe that's mentioned in the forum post but theoretically if it important enough could be worth promoting here prominently.

Reviewer: I did just see that there are recommendations of what to do (like one above) in the forum post, and I wonder if we should promote that more heavily at top of this doc or within each item. Because I can imagine someone reading this doc and not getting what I see as the main point; that they should be understanding the future impacts and doing some specific recommendations (e.g., switching to NRQL alert conditions) to prep for these EOLs. I can imagine them not getting that there are big takeaways in the forum post, in other words.

Author: This is a good point. We really want them to use the Explorers Hub post as a communication point, esp over time, but it won't hurt to put more detail here. Thanks for the suggestions!
